***ANSWER ALL OF THE QUESTIONS BELOW***

What is a programming language?
Answer:is language use to control the behaviour of machine particulary computer & is writting language tel computer what to do

What is a JDK composed of? Define each components?
Answer:Tree basic components in java
       (JDK)java development kit is software development environment use to develop java application and applet
       (JRE)java runtime environment IS
       (JVM)java Virtual machine

What is an IDE?
Answer:IDE integrated development environment is a software consolidates basic tools require to write
and test software
       building and testing development tools editor compiles and text platform

What are some of the most popular Java IDEs available in the market?
Answer:Intellij, Eclipse, NetBeans and Visual Studio

Explain the entire java life cycle.
Answer:type text code in text editor than compiling to the source code (Bytcode) after execution it
to virtual machine

What is a class?
Answer:is blueprint or set of instructions to build specific type of object.
it is basic concept Object Oriented Programming

What is an object?
Answer: is member of java class each object has an identity a behavior and state

What is the entry point of a Java project?
Answer:is class having method with signature public static void main(string[] args)

Why is the main() method static?
Answer:

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Answer: where the point execution start

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Answer:in path is set for java tools,whish use to compile your code.
          classpath use by system or application class loader to locate and load compile the code

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class? the both use to have abstraction
Answer:abstract class contain abstract keyword on the declaration whereas interface sketch to implement a class

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class? If yes or no, how would you do it?
Answer:cannot makes object from an interface and abstract class

What is Access Modifier?
Answer:use to set accessibility of class interface, variable, methods, constructors, data members.

What is OOP? Define each OOP concept.
Answer:OOP is programing paradigm based on concept of objects wich can contain data in form of fields  and code
on form procedure
OOP concept are as following Class, Object, Encapsulation, Inheritance, Abstraction, Polymorphism

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Answer:use to group related classes & mechanism to encapsulate a group of class sub package and interfaces
java.lang package import my default

What is an API? List some API's that you have used so far.
Answer:it is acronym for application programing which is a software intermediary that allow to use
two applications to talk each other like you while using facebook you check the map or weather

Does java support multiple inheritance? Why or why not?
Answer: does not allow multiple inheritance to avoid ambiguity cause from it

What is method overloading? List all of the different ways to overload.
Answer:when the class have multiple methods by the same name buy different parameter as know compile time polymorphism
they are 3 ways for be everloading a) number of parameteres b)datatype of parameteres c)sequence of parameters

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle them.
Answer:
is an event which occurs during execution of program. when an error occurs within a method,the method create an object
and hands it off to runtime system
What is static keyword? When and how do we use it?
Answer:is non access modifier used for methods and attributes
is the way to grouping class together

What is final keyword? When and how do we use it?
 Answer:non access modifier used for classes, attributes, methods
 make them impossible no changeable, inherit, override

Explain the difference between final, finally and finalize?
Answer:each of this keywords has difference functionality
final is an access modifiers, finally block of exception and handling, finalize is method of object class

What is a constructor?
Answer:special method use to initialize the object


Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Answer:useful has to perform different actions on the instantiation of class

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
Answer:default constructor

What is "this" keyword in Java? When would we use it?
Answer:“this” in Java is used to refer to methods, static and instance variables,
constructors of a current class

What is "super" keyword in Java? What are some scenarios we would use it?
Answer: “super” in Java is used to refer to methods, static and instance variables,
constructors of an immediate paren class

What does JVM stand for?
Answer:
Java Virtual Machine
Java Virtual Machine, or JVM, loads, verifies and executes Java bytecode. It is known as the interpreter or the core of Java programming
language because it executes Java programming

Is JVM platform independent?
Answer: because use virtual machine

What version of Java are you using?
Answer: 8 Update 341

What does JAR stand for?
Answer:java ARchive

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
Answer:jdk is use to development application in java but jvm enable to computer run the programs as well as

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
Answer:JRE is the execution and running the program in JVM platform independent

Explain the difference between compile-time and run-time?
Answer:Compile time is the period when the programming code is converted to the machine code
       Runtime is the period of time when a program is running and generally occurs after compile time.

What is heap?
Answer: is the area of memory used to store objects instantiated by applications running on the JVM

How does Java manage its memory?
Answer:Memory Management in Java refers to allocating and deallocating memory
to java objects which reside in areas called Stack and Heap

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
Answer:String is immutable whereas StringBuffer and StringBuilder are mutable classes

What is Singleton class?
Answer: is a class that can have only one object

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Answer:
Image result for What is Serialization and Deserialization
Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream.
Deserialization is the reverse process where the byte stream

Explain the difference between While and Do..While loops?
Answer:While loop checks the condition first and then executes the statement
whereas do while loop will execute the statement(s) at least once, then the condition is checked
What is Enum?
Answer:An enum is a special "class" that represents a group of constants

What is Iterator?
Answer:Interactors: little, reusable chunks of code that abstract logic from presenters while simplifying your app

Which one will take more memory: an int or Integer? Why?
Answer:As already mentioned int is a primitive data type and takes 32 bits(4 bytes) to store.
On other hand Integer is an object which takes 128 bits (16 bytes) to store its int value

Why are Strings considered to be immutable in Java?
Answer:the String is immutable in Java because of the security, synchronization and concurrency,
 caching, and class loading.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
Answer:the process of calling a sequence of constructors

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
Answer: the parallel collector has multiple threads that are used to speed up garbage collection.

 the parallel collector has multiple threads that are used to speed up garbage collection.?
Answer: yes

Explain the process of Java garbage collection?
Answer:the process by which Java programs perform automatic memory management

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
Answer:no

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Answer:java Heap Space is used throughout the application
but Stack is only used for the method

What is reflection in Java and why is it useful?
Answer: is a feature in the Java programming language. It allows an executing Java program to examine or
"introspect" upon itself,and manipulate internal properties of the program

What is multithreading in Java?
Answer:Multithreading refers to a process of executing two or more threads simultaneously
 for maximum utilization of the CPU

What is synchronization in Java?
Answer:the capability to control the access of multiple threads to any shared resource

What is a Framework?
Answer:Java frameworks are specific to the Java programming language.
It's a Java platform for developing software applications and Java programs

What are the testing Frameworks available in Java?
Answer:Selenium.
       JUnit.
       TestNG.
       SerenityBDD.
       Mockito.

What are jUnit and testNG?
Answer:JUnit is an open-source framework used to trigger and write tests. TestNG is a Java-based
 framework that is an upgraded option for running tests

What are the dependencies for this project?
Answer:Every project has dependencies, which Max Wideman's Glossary defines
 as the “relationships between products or tasks”, i.e. tasks that require input from other tasks
 to be completed,or activities that can't start until a previous activity is done.

What is dependency injection in Java?
Answer:Dependency injection enables you to turn regular Java classes into managed objects
and to inject them into any other managed object. Using dependency injection
your code can declare dependencies on any managed object

Explain what static binding and dynamic binding is?
Answer:Static binding uses Type information for binding while Dynamic binding uses Objects to resolve bindinggit